# Urban Inequality Model
One of the main conclusions in the Urban Scaling Laws is that by doubling the size of a city, there will be a 10-20\% increase in economic productivity \citep{scaling}. However, cities are not perfectly mixed systems as assumed in Bettencourt et al.'s paper \citep{scaling}, the urban system is conformed by socio-economic clusters. This characteristic in the network produces the city to have some fluctuations in the economic growth depending on the spatial location in the system \citep{incomescaling}. This suggests that not every neighborhood is receiving the benefits of the scaling properties.
 
Many empirical studies demonstrated that the larger the population size and densities of a city, while lower incomes grow proportionately or less than proportionately, higher incomes grow more quickly, suggesting a disproportionate agglomeration of incomes in the highest income categories in big cities \citep{incomescaling, cateheine, sarkar}. Many studies also show that, even though cities increase in wealth creation as time moves forward, within those cities, spatially, wealth creation is not uniform. The imbalance between cross-sectional and longitudinal scaling supports the hypothesis that cities’ macro-temporal dynamics differ from the micro-spatial dynamics of a city system \cite{marc, sarkar, incomescaling, cateheine}. These premises show the existence of a relevant relationship between the scaling behavior of Urban Inequality and the spatial component of the urban system, and also refute the heterogeneity assumption in the Scaling Laws' model. 

This model tries to simulate the structure and evolution of the Urban Economic Inequality considering the spatial component of the urban system. By doing that, I started with a really simple version of the model, in order to identify whether the dynamics of the simplified simulation aligns with the expected behavior as a way to check the veracity of my assumptions. 

The main assumption in this model is the averaging effect within neighborhoods. This assumption is based on multiple extant empirical studies in developmental economics, such as the one by Raj Chetty \citep{chetty}. These studies show that neighborhoods have an important effect in intergenerational mobility primarily through childhood exposure. Therefore, this model tries to simplify this behavior by introducing a heuristic function representing the averaging effect of the neighborhood in the wealth growth of the households. 
